computer hardware : collection of physical elements of a computer
computer software: is a collection of programs stored and executed by computer

Application software: performs specific task to the user
system software: platform for application software and manage the computer hardware

Operating System : interface between user and hardware
Software that manages resources of all the software and hardware of a computer

User -> Application program -> OS -> Hardware

types of os:
batch process : process programs in batches submitted by the User
multiprogramming: ability of computer to load multiple programs into memory and execute them continuously
multitasking: ability of computer to switch between programs rapidly simulating concurrent execution
multiprocessing: computer having multiple processors each executing a program


kernel: core part of os, interface to the computer hardware for user programs/user

shell: interface to the kernel

system call: is a mechanism using which a user program can request a service from the kernel/OS for 
which it does not have the permission to perform (user can be in user mode but request for privileged tasks)

monolithic kernel: is an operating system architecture where the entire operating system is working in kernel space.
layered: os code is layered into multiple layers

A bootstrap program is the first code that is executed when the computer system is started.

device driver: enables communication between io devices and computer
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

// *** process and process scheduling

Registers: registers are memory for the processes for rapid computations to store operands and instructions

process: A process is a program in execution
-> A process consists of 
1. stack
2. heap
3. data (global variables)
4. text (program code)


program is passive, process in active

A process is represented in memory as PCB (process control block)(Data structure)
-> consists of
1. state
2. scheduling information
3. io information
4. values of program counters and registers
5. Accounting information - process id, CPU- and real- time used, time limits, etc


*** states of a process
1. new
2. ready
3. running
4. waiting
5. terminate

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*** Process scheduling and algorithms

process scheduling: specific scheduling for executing of processes in memory


Scheduling queues (used for process scheduling)
1. job queues: total processes in the system
2. ready queue: list of processes loaded into memory
3. device queues: process waiting for i/o devices


types of scheduler:

1. Long term scheduler: load the processes into memory submitted by the user (controls the degree of multiprogramming)
2. short term scheduler: select the processes in memory and allocate the CPU
3. mid term scheduler: removes the process from memory (to free memory of reduces degree of multiprogramming)

zombie process: is a process that has terminated but its PCB still exists because its parent has not 
yet accepted its return value.

thread: thread is a unit of execution within a process

multithreading: multiple threads of a single process are executing concurrently (by different processors(parallelization) or context switching)

** Inter-process Communication models
1. Shared memory
2. Message passing


!! (concurrency is an illusion of parallel processing done using context switching)
